Annual recurring revenue (ARR) refers to revenue, normalized on an annual basis, that a company expects to receive from its customers for providing them with products or services. Essentially, annual recurring revenue is a metric of predictable and recurring revenue generated by customers within a year. The measure is primarily used by businesses operating on a subscription-based model.

### Uses of ARR
Annual recurring revenue (ARR) is considered one of the most important [[Metrics]] for subscription-based companies. The metric offers some crucial applications for a company:

1. Quantifies the company’s growth
The predictability and stability of ARR make the metric a good measure of a company’s growth. By comparing ARRs for several years, a company can clearly see whether its business decisions are resulting in any progress.

2. Evaluate the success of the [[Business Model]]
Unlike total revenue, which considers all of a company’s cash inflows, ARR evaluates only the revenue obtained from subscriptions. Thus, ARR enables a company to identify whether its subscription model is successful or not.

3. Forecast revenue
Similar to MRR, ARR is commonly used for revenue forecasting. The metric is commonly referred to as a baseline, and it can be easily incorporated into more complex calculations to project the company’s future revenues.

### How to Calculate ARR?
The calculation of ARR considers only recurring revenue and excludes any one-time or variable fees.

In a simplified scenario, annual recurring revenue can be calculated from figures related to multi-year contracts. Consider a company with one customer who took up a five-year subscription for a total amount of $10,000. Determine the company’s ARR by simply dividing the contract’s total amount by the contract’s length:

ARR = $10,000 / 5 = $2,000

For multiple customers, repeat the same calculation for each customer and determine ARR by adding all the yearly amounts.

However, in real life, companies prefer breaking down the total figure into some individual ARRs. The common ARR components include the following:

ARR added from new customers
ARR added from renewals from current customers
ARR added from upgrades from current customers
ARR lost from downgrades from current customers
ARR lost from churned customers
Breaking down the total figure helps a company identify which customer segments contribute the most to its ARR.