1. Speak your passion. It really, really helps if you actually care about what you are talking about. You may be a financial planner, but your passion isn’t money. It may rather be seeing families thrive and not make bad financial decisions that leave them broke. Make this the heart of your presentation; make sure your audience know your underlying driving motive. Passion carries with it a weight of conviction and humanity that can reach the heart of your audience much more than just your job title or perceived professional area of expertise. Brené Brown is a fine example of talking from the heart in her fascinating talks, ‘[[The Power of Vulnerability]]’ and ‘[[Listening to Shame]]’.

2. Tell a story. Human beings are obsessed with narrative, it punctuates every aspect of life. In fact, even life itself is very much a narrative. Or at least it has a beginning, middle and end. So tell stories when you speak in public. Maybe you have a dull presentation to deliver on the logistics involved in a water sanitation project. Bring it to life by telling the story of how someone at the receiving end will experience a change for the better as a result of your project. This gives it a relational anchor which will hold the attention and be retained in the memory of your audience for much longer than a series of statistics will. It will engage your listeners much more with the ‘business end’ of what actually needs to be delivered. Jimmy Nelson’s ‘Gorgeous Portraits of the World’s Vanishing People’ is full of great stories.

3. Make it emotional. This is a continuation of the previous point to some extent. Humans are emotional beings and you will have a great deal more success in reaching people’s attention if you can introduce emotion into your talk. Fulfilling your dream, reaching a career goal and achieving a certain income figure may all be the exact same thing for someone, but the former has a romantic and aspirational quality which makes it far more appealing and soul- warming than the latter because it taps into emotion. To continue with the analogy from the previous point about water sanitation, tell the proverbial story about Mary, the widowed mother of four who has to walk eight miles each day under a burning sun to fetch a bucket of potentially contaminated water and then show how your project will provide fresh water next to her home. If you do this, you will reach the emotions of your audience and suddenly your logistics become a lot more interesting, not to mention relevant and important. Sam Berns taps into the emotions of his audience very well in his talk ‘My Philosophy for a Happy Life’.

4. Make it 18 Minutes Long. If we’re honest, we don’t have a great attention-span. Regardless of whether or not generation-tweet has contributed to the demise of the attention-span, research suggests that holding a public talk for longer than 18 minutes is a bad idea as people lose interest. So yes, this means you will need to practice your talk in advance, but Gallo suggests doing exactly that anyway. Which leads us nicely on to…

5. Practice makes perfect. Practice on friends, practice on family. Practice your talk on an unfamiliar audience. If you are a graphic designer and you need to deliver an important presentation on the subject, go to your local college and ask if you can practice by delivering the presentation to a bunch of students. With honest feedback and your own observation you will be able to identify and iron out any issues in advance rather than being a victim of them on the day.

6. PowerPoint isn’t everything. Whilst visual aids are important, as you’ll see later in this article, realise that having slides behind you is not an absolute must. In fact, slides full of text probably do more harm than good to your presentation. There is a compelling case for well told and delivered presentations where the content is excellent being sufficient in itself and not needing slides to detract from it. If you are going to use a powerpoint presentation, Talk Like TED suggests using no more than 40 words in the first 10 slides.

7. What is the one most important thing you want your audience to take away? Think this through and sum up your presentation, the point you are trying to make, in an old-tweet sized sentence — 140 characters or less.

8. Use the rule of three. Give your audience three things to remember. Break down your presentation into three points that you want people to take away with them.

9. Create a surprising moment. Easier said than done, this one. But if you can do something unusual or surprising at some point in your presentation it is far more likely to become etched into the memory of your audience. A great example of this is Bill Gates’ TED Talk on malaria in which he brought with him to the stage a jar full of mosquitos and then released them into the audience. Not only was this a success for his intended audience, but the presentation went viral online as a result.

10. Tell your audience something new. Your brain is intrigued and captivated by novelty. Try and include an interesting or relevant anecdote, fact or statistic that you’re pretty sure your audience isn’t already aware of.

11. Use Humour. Humour is a wonderful tool, but needs to be wielded well. It can break the tension, particularly early in the presentation and instantly creates a bond between you and your audience and makes you seem like a relatable friend rather than a stuffy distant professional. But don’t just drop random jokes in for the sake of it. Make sure your humour is relevant. Self-depreciating can be the best as you are the victim of the joke and therefore less likely to offend anyone. On that note, make sure it is tasteful, or it will have the reverse effect and would probably be better to have no joke than one that earns you instant dislike from your audience.

12. Use statistics. Whilst stories are more powerful than statistics, persuasion occurs when you reach someone’s heart and head. You need statistics that are shocking or stirring and back up your argument. “Never leave data dangling” — a statistic does not have to be boring, put it into a story, give it some context, to make it meaningful.

13. Create a multi-sensory experience. If you want your talk to be engaging and memorable, appeal to as many senses as possible. Use images, video, audio, touch, smell and taste where possible to capture your audience.

14. Stay in your lane. Watching the likes of Steve Jobs or Tony Robbins present is no bad thing. But don’t try to be them when you present. Stay in your lane and be your true, authentic self. This is the one thing you can deliver that absolutely no one else can. Don’t hide behind your nerves. In some ways this goes back to point 1 about speaking your passion. Speak what’s on your heart, what is your passion and be yourself doing it.